Hi.
In this video,
where when you talk about bitwise operators in seep listless,
Please know that their are total six bed wise operators and C plus Plus,
we are going to talk about first three in this medio and then Next Tree in the Next radio.
Now what do we mean by a bitwise operator?
Their are Mathematics operators that do addition subtraction,
multiplication division.
Their are logical operators that return values Like true and
false.
They always deal where Tree windfalls their used inside the conditional statements
mostly,
Like if while for bit ways,
operators day work on Binary Implementation of numbers,
the mainly operate on individual bits of the number that you past
two.
These operators letters one begin bed Y IDE operators with these Tree
operators.
First operator is bit wise and so we're bid wise and
operated us.
It does bid wise end of by Implementation of two
numbers,
so you must have extradited and here write an and a GATE produces and output
as one.
If both in ports are one.
In all other three Cases,
it produces the output.
Zero,
if important,
is 10 than Also 001 than Also zero both zero is than Also zero.
It produces are put one only when both the inputs are one
bitwise or it produces the or could as one when
any of the imports are one write.
For example,
a share important is 11 X point to produce one,
if important,
01 and Also s want two Practice one if 10 then Also its going to produce one
in case of 100 is going to produce you so bad Y IDE or
produces one in three Cases and zero in one case,
its kind of opposed of bitwise in which produces one only in one
case and zero in three Cases.
Next operator is bid wise XOR,
but ways XOR in interesting.
It produces output as one when two in put beds are
different for 01 report is is one for 10 It Also
produces one for other Cases,
Like 00 in one Month.
It produces the output Test zero because both the bits are same.
In both Cases,
00 and 11 Let us now begin with first bitwise
operator,
but was and left.
See this example?
We have input X s Tree and Y s six.
And when we print as action,
why we get the out Protests two at the output of first line is two that
See How two get this output two by Implementation trees.
This we have 1st 30 bits as zero and then tore bits as
one.
Considering that in teachers are represented is in 32 bids that their
represented using 60 for bits ban 1st,
62 bits will be zero and last two bits will be one by
any representation of why which is six is going to have 110 at the end.
Last neighbours and if in digit are represented using 32
beds than 1st 29 bits are going to be zero plea New.
That number of bits require two represented in d jer is
not standardise.
Its not mentioned in this even List.
Plus a standard compilers are free to choose any size
sum Come by.
Layers have in teacher size is 32 bits.
Sum Compiler is have 60 for bits,
sum hold compilers even of 16 bills.
So that is Y used dot,
dot dot So these first bits might be 30 bits or their might be 62 kids.
Similarly,
here these zeros might be 29 bits or 61 bits.
If the stay for better presentational used now be do bitwise end of these two.
Please remember the rule of bitwise and it produces one only when both in
Porter one.
So we have 10 different.
We have output 011 same and both are one.
So are Practice one 010 and all
the Previous bits their any ways by New produce zero because they all are zero.
What is Decimal representation of this number?
Here is a number which has all the leading bits zero except the last two bits.
And last second last bit is one and its last Minute zero true Decimal.
If element of the sum Mar is two,
that is by Y get the all Prada's two.
When we parent bitwise and of Tree in for let us now talk
about bid wise or operator bitwise or operator.
If produces the output as one when any of the input bits are one,
so we have to number section Why?
Whose bit ways or we want to find out.
Please note that these operators are called better wise,
but the produce output does in in digit only night.
They do internally,
but Y IDE operators operations and then consider the Decimal
value after doing the bit Y operations then return that Decimal value
as a result.
So three and six their by any Implementation are reason these And
when you do bitwise or of X,
and while not See would do we get 10 bid wise or is going
to be one 11 bed ways or or it is going to be one while in one
because one of the bits is set here.
Both are sets of one here again,
one by districts of one for remaining pairs,
as all going of is zero.
Because all the remaining bits on the leading bits are zero sour output is going to be a
number which has last three bits as one and remaining leading bits.
A zero is you zero IDE.
If it is the 30 to build a presentation that this twenties are 29 zeros affected 60 for
better presentation.
These are 16 1 CEOs,
but these are Also here was only the last Time bit Search set.
So what is the Decimal equal IND of this Binary this corresponds of one discussed wanted to
this Christmas of force of vote List two.
Place 17 that is Y get the all protest level in this program for these second
line.
It does now talk about our Next bitwise operator,
which is XOR operator.
XOR operator produces the or port one only when two input bits
are different.
So we have given the numbers as Tree you in six These are their by near presentations.
When we do bitwise XOR be produced the output as one only when their
different so one and zero their different.
So we produce the or put as one,
one and one their saves over all present zero and one their
different.
So over output is one.
Now the consider remaining leading beds.
They are all zero in both of them,
so they are all going to be shame in both of them.
So we have a number in the result whose last Tree bits are 101
and remaining leading bits are all zero a facts.
A 22 bit number than these are 29 bits affects the 60 for with number than the your 61 be
zeros.
Now,
odd is d Decimal equal int of this number,
its one plus for five.
So we get the our code a five when we do bitwise XOR of ash and Y.